this parallel coordinates plot presents
a multivariate analysis of the classic
Iris data set the data set has four
numerical variables shown as four
distinct axes in the plot SLE length SLE
width pedal length and pedal width a
single polyline represents an individual
data point across multiple variables the
values for a given data point are
represented as the intersection of the
polyline at each axis the poly lines in
this plot are colorcoded by three Iris
species the blue lines for Iris setosa
the magenta lines for Iris virginica and
the orange lines for Iris
versacolor parallel coordinates enable
us to explore the relative differences
and similarities among the three Iris
species across the four variables in the
data set in addition the plot reveals
relationships between the variables
across all data points for example there
is a noticeable negative relationship
between seple length and seel width as
indicated by the intersecting x pattern
of the
lines this pattern shows that when SLE
length increases seel width generally
decreases in contrast pedal length and
pedal width demonstrate a positive
relationship through the parallel
arrangement of the lines meaning that as
one variable increases the other tends
to increase as well